What is this?
-------------

This projet is a collection of code showing how to control Parrot's
Jumping Sumo. The maker, Parrot, freely provides an App (Freeflight 3)
for Android and iOS for people to use it with smartphone and
tablets. Parrot promissed a SDK "this year" (2014) to programmatically
control the Sumo from any platform. However, I was not willing to wait.

The Jumping Sumo is a WiFi-controlled kind of two-tyred RC-Car equipped
with a camera for live-streaming (and recording). It does do jumps and
special, preprogrammed moves.

There are two design goals and reasons for this project (and these apply
as well for the to-be-released SDK): one is to used the code to create
user-applications on platforms which are not officially supported by Parrot.
And, secondly, have people automate the control of the Sumo by
programmatically processing the video-frames and thus have the Sumo
orientate itself.

The code which can be found in this repository was completely reverse
engineered. This was done completely independently of Parrot. They
neither provided help nor did I ask for help in any way.  In other
words it works, but has a lot of limitations and assumptations in it
and, in the worst case, might harm or even damage the device when
being used with. So:

THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAW. YOU ARE USING THIS CODE AT YOUR OWN RISK.

The principal of reverse engineering is, that you send data-bytes to
the device you have captured using the official applipcation. Once
analyzed and processed you are able to associate those bytes with a
certain functionality.

What's in the package
---------------------

analyze/

  code which is used to analyze captured network packages

lib/

  a C++11 library providing a simple class (sumo::Control) to control
  the Sumo. It encapsulates the network-protocol and handles all in and
  outgoing network traffic

qsumo/

  a simple QT-app letting you control the Sumo with arrow keys on your
  keyboard

test/

  a super simple and small command-line application which does nothing
  else than having the Sumo turn circles and thus showing how to use the API.

See README.dev for me information on the code.

Get it working (on Linux)
-------------------------

0) get the dependencies (Ubuntu/Debian)
   $ sudo apt-get install libpcap-dev libqt4-dev mplayer

1) get the code
   $ git clone https://github.com/iloreen/libsumo.git

2) create a build-dir
   $ cd libsumo
   $ mkdir build

3) in build-dir run cmake and compile the stuff
   $ cd build
   $ cmake ..
   $ make

4) connect yourself to the WiFi provided by the Sumo

5) run qs (the QtApp)
   $ ./qs

6) click "Open" (it should change the caption to Close when successful
   and you should see some text being printed in the terminal and you
   should see a video-player (mplayer) window open with the current
   view of the sumo)

7) Use the arrow keys to accelerate or break and to turn left or right.

Requirements
------------

- a C++11 capable compiler (gcc >=4.8, clang)
- if you want to analyze network code with 'analyze' you need libpcap-dev
- if you want to build the qt-app, libqt4-dev
- mplayer, used by the QtApp to display the video images

What is implemented
-------------------

- Moving (acceleration and turning)
- Videoframes are shown
- Battery-level can be read
- HighJump and LongJump
- FastTurns
- special moves (like Slalom, fast-turns)

What's missing (a.k.a TODO)
---------------------------

- understand usage of timestamps in "realtime part"
- understand all incoming Type-4 Messages (IOCTL)
- implement correct JSON parsing and generation
- handle configuration messages (don't even know which protocol is used)
- change class which handles video frames so that it can be easily overriden for automatic image processing
- implement MDNS discovery - right now the Sumo's IP address is hardcoded to 192.168.2.1


License
-------

LGPL v2.1 - see COPYING-file

Links
-----

Parrot - Company
  http://www.parrot.com/

Parrot - Jumping Sumo product page
  http://www.parrot.com/usa/products/jumping-sumo/

Qt Forum - Get keypress events
  http://qt-project.org/forums/viewthread/28888


Contribution
------------

I'd like to see
- feedback,
- you trying it out and reporting what happens,
- you forking this repo on github
- you sending patches with fixes, improvements, changes or ports to other languages.

Have fun.

--
Ive Loreen <ive.loreen@gmail.com>
